<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
	<title>NeHe-EPUB-Intro</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/styles.css"/>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<h1>Introduction</h1>
<h2>A Brief History of SVG Animation</h2>
<p>SVG's origin was an exploration of the possibilities of creating a markup language written in XML. It was created by Jon Ferraiolo and RIchard Cohen, both at Adobe Systems. They named their creation Precision Graphics Markup Language (PGML). In the early days there was no animation, it was a static markup that was essentially an XML expression of the same capabilities as PDF (in which Richard was heavily involved in creating in the early 1990s).</p>
<p>As PGML evolved, Adobe reached out and began colllaborating with other companies, notably Natscape, Sun Microsystems and IBM. Together, they drew up a spec and submitted it for review to the W3C. Although a working group was formed and <a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/1998/NOTE-PGML-19980410">specifications created</a>, it ultimately foundered as the W3C received a number of competing proposals, </p>
<ul>
  <li>Web Schematics, from CCLRC</li>
  <li>PGML, from Adobe, IBM, Netscape, and Sun</li>
  <li>VML, by Autodesk, Hewlett-Packard, Macromedia, and Microsoft</li>
  <li>Hyper Graphics Markup Language, by Orange, PCSL, and PRP</li>
  <li>WebCGM, from Boeing, CCLRC, Inso, JISC, and Xerox</li>
  <li>DrawML, from Excosoft</li>
</ul>
<p>but none of them could gain consensus at the whole effort ground to a halt. But it is worth noting that even the early proposal for PGML at the W3C included a requirement that the markup be animatable.</p>
<p>A year or so later, as both XML and the Web gained momentum, Jon Ferraiolo spearheaded another attempt along the same lines, this time calling the markup Scalable Vector Graphics. This time, it gained a fair amount of momentum and SVG became a reality.</p>
<p>In order to support animation, </p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>