<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>NeHe-EPUB-Preface</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/styles.css"/>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<h1>Preface</h1>
<h2>Goal of this Book</h2>
<p>This little EPUB is being written to demonstrate several of the ways that animated SVG can be used for illustrating
	educational and related ideas. It is not intended as a tutorial on SVG itself nor is it an exhaustive examination of
	all the ways that one might use SVG animation. Still it covers the three basic methods for animating SVG: SMIL,
	JavaScript and CSS3. A such, it is hoped that it may be useful and interesting to some.</p>
<p>It is worth noting that the use of SMIL animation in an EPUB such as this is, strictly speaking, disallowed by the
	EPUB spec. The EPUB Working Group (of which the author is a long-time member) decided in the early days of EPUB
	(circa 2.x) that SVG animation, though fully supported by both Adobe's SVG Viewer and Sun's Batik viewer, should not
	be allowed in EPUB documents. Somewhat ironically, none of us in the WG can clearly recall why we decided that SMIL
	animation should be excluded. In those long ago days, processors in eBook devices were slow, batteries weak and many
	displays were eInk with its slow refresh rate. These were probably the primary arguments to not allow SMIL animation.
	Finally, it has to be acknowledged that implementing SMIL animation in SVG was quite difficult, which may have also
	played a role.</p>
<h2>About the Author</h2>
<p>Ric is the Director of Engineering for the <a href="http://readium.org/">Readium</a> project, which is an open-source
	foundation dedicated to providing web apps and a SDK for rendering <a href="http://idpf.org/epub/301">EPUB</a>, the
	standard format for eBooks. Prior to running Readium, Ric was with Adobe Systems for many years, where he was a key
	member of the original SVG Viewer group and was also responsible for most of the libraries for import/export of SVG
	from Adobe's tools include Illustrator, InDesign and LiveMotion. After Adobe killed the SVG Viewer (because
	management was in love with Flash - he who laughs last and all that), Ric founded and led the eBook group at Adobe
	until his departure in 2012. More details of Ric's background can be found on his website at
	<a href="http://www.geofx.com" title="Geo-F/X website" target="_blank">Geo-F/X</a>.</p>
<p> The details of how this book was created are covered in the Colophon at the end of the book.</p>
<p>If you have any feedback, suggestions or bug reports about this book, you are strongly encouraged to contact
	<a href="mailto:rkwright@readium.org">Ric</a> directly.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>